# Number_Guessing_Game
First Project: Number Guessing Game

# What The Game Does:

*This is my first programming project. The basic concept of this game as the name suggest is about guessing a random number between 1 and 100 generated by a computer.

*The user is prompted to guess the number and is accordingly prompted for higher or lower number until the user eventually guesses the number.

*It also counts the number of valid attempts that the user has taken before guessing the actual number.

*User are also given an option of playing again after completing the game once.

Language Used: 

*C Language Used

Code Editor:

*VS Code

# Concepts used:

*Variables

*Data Types

*Conditions

*Loops

*Random Module(AI Assistance)

*Functions

# Features:

*Random Number Generator

*Attempt Counter

*Play Again Option

Issues Handled:

*Handles integers outside range 1 and 100 are counted as invalid attempt and the user is prompted to try again.

*Handles string and charcter imputs similarly as invalid attempts.(AI Assistance used in this part) 

*Handles Floating Point Number and Decimals accordingly.

# How to run main.c: 

Prerequistes:
Ensure you have a C compiler installed(like 'gcc').
* **Linux/Ubuntu:** `sudo apt install build-essential`

* **macOS:** `xcode-select --install`

* **Windows:** Use [MinGW](https://www.mingw-w64.org/) or WSL.

# Compilation & Execution

1. **Compile the code:**

*Open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the folder containing main.c.

*Compile the code using GCC:
   gcc main.c -o main

2. **Execution:**

*Linus/MacOS
./main

*Windows
main.exe

Shortcut:

*If you have VS Code installed just copy and paste main.c after and run it as usual. 

Notes for the future:

*Add High Score Tracker

*Difficulty Levels